---
layout: post
title: Cisco IP ACL
description: 
category: network
---

## Cisco IP ACL Overview
### IP acl types
cisco IP acl has three types:
- Port acl:   
**An ACL is considered a port ACL when you apply it to one of the following:**  
  - Ethernet interface
  - Ethernet port-channel interface  

  *When a port ACL is applied to a trunk port, the ACL filters traffic on all VLANs on the trunk port.*

- Router ACL  
  - vlan interfaces(svi)
  - Physical layer 3 interfaces
  - Layer 3 Ethernet port-channel interfaces
  - Layer 3 Ethernet port-channel subinterfaces
  - Tunnels
  - Management interfaces

- VLAN ACL:  
An ACL is a VACL when you use an access map to associate the ACL with an action and then apply the map to a VLAN.

### Application Order
When the device processes a packet, it determines the forwarding path of the packet. The path determines which ACLs that the device applies to the traffic. The device applies the ACLs in the following order:
- Port ACL
- Ingress VACL
- Ingress Router ACL
- Egress Router ACL
- Egress VACL



### IP acl Rules  
You can create rules in access-list configuration mode by using the permit or deny command. The device allows traffic that matches the criteria in a permit rule and blocks traffic that matches the criteria in a deny rule.   
**This section describes some of the options that you can use when you configure a rule:**  
- Source and Destination
- Protocols
- Implicit Rules
- Additional Filtering Options
- Sequence Numbers
- Logical Operators and Logical Operation Units  

**Implicit Rules:**

IP and MAC ACLs have implicit rules, which means that although these rules do not appear in the running configuration, the switch applies them to traffic when no other rules in an ACL match.

All IPv4 ACLs include the following implicit rule:  
```
deny ip any any
```

## Some examples of configuring IP ACLs

### Creating an IP ACL
```
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# ip access-list acl-01
switch(config-acl)# permit ip 192.168.2.0/24 any
switch(config-acl)# statistics  \\(Optional)
```
### PACL
Applying an IP ACL as a Port ACL  
```
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# interface {ethernet [chassis/]slot/port | port-channel channel-number}
switch(config-if)# ip port access-group access-list in
switch# copy running-config startup-config
```

### RACL
Applying an IP ACL as a Router ACL  
```
switch# configure terminal
Enter one of the following commands:
    switch(config)# interface ethernet slot/port[. number]
    switch(config)# interface port-channel channel-number[. number]
    switch(config)# interface tunnel tunnel-number
    switch(config)# interface vlan vlan-ID
    switch(config)# interface mgmt port
switch(config-if)# ip access-group access-list {in | out }
```

### Monitoring and Clearing IP ACL Statistics  (PACL and RACL)

```
switch# show ip access-lists name
```  
>*Displays IP ACL configuration. If the IP ACL includes the statistics command, then the show ip access-lists command output includes the number of packets that have matched each rule.*

```
 switch#show ip access-lists name
```  
>*Displays IP ACL configuration. If the IP ACL includes the statistics command, then the show ip access-lists command output includes the number of packets that have matched each rule.*  

``` 
switch# clear ip access-list counters [access-list-name]  

```

>*Clears statistics for all IP ACLs or for a specific IP ACL.*

```
switch# clear ip access-list counters [access-list-name]
```
>*Clears statistics for all IP ACLs or for a specific IP ACL.*

### Configuring VACLs
- Create a IP acl first
- Creating or Changing a VACL 
```
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# vlan access-map map-name
switch(config-access-map)# match ip address ip-access-list
switch(config-access-map)# action {drop | forward }
switch(config-access-map)# [no ] statistics \\(Optional)
switch(config-access-map)# copy running-config startup-config
```
- Applying a VACL to a VLAN 

```
switch# configure terminal
switch(config)# [no ] vlan filter map-name vlan-list list
switch(config)# copy running-config startup-config 
```
### Displaying and Clearing VACL Statistics
```
switch# show vlan access-list
```
>*Displays VACL configuration. If the VLAN access-map includes the statistics command, then the show vlan *access-list command output includes the number of packets that have matched each rule.

```
switch# clear vlan access-list counters
```  
>*Clears statistics for all VACLs or for a specific VACL.*
